#summary How to build the NativeDriver server and client libraries and run the sample tests.
#labels Featured

==WARNING==

*!NativeDriver is only for the testing purpose.*

!NativeDriver uses private API. Do not use this library in the production codes.

==Requirements==
<ul>
<li>Xcode 4</li>
<li>Eclipse version 3.5 or later (Eclipse IDE for Java Developers recommended) - <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/">
download</a></li>
<li>Ant - <a href="http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi">download</a></li>
<li>JDK 1.6 or later - <a href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk-6u25-download-346242.html">download</a></li>
</ul>

==Check-out the !NativeDriver libraries==
Check-out the repository with SVN if you have not done so already:
{{{
$ svn checkout https://nativedriver.googlecode.com/svn/trunk nativedriver --username {Google account e-mail address}
}}}
The repository that will be downloaded is organized in this manner:
{{{
nativedriver
  |
  |__iphone
  |     |__Classes (server codes)
  |     |__Client (client codes)
  |     |__NativeDriver.xcodeproj (Xcode project of server)
  |     |__SampleApp (sample app under test)
  |     |__Tests (unit tests for server codes)
  |     |__ThirdParty (Objective-C dependencies we need)
  |
  |__third_party (Java dependencies we need)
}}}

==Build and run !SampleApp app on your emulator==

Open nativedriver/!SampleApp/!SampleApp.xcodeproj with Xcode. This application have already finished the !NativeDriver configurations.
Run *Automation* target on *iPhone 4.3 Simulator*.

==Build client library==
Use `ant` to build the !NativeDriver client library:
{{{
$ cd nativedriver/iphone/Client
$ ant
}}}

<p>*ios-client-standalone.jar* is built and stored in the nativedriver/iphone/Client/build directory. This should be linked to the test, which is the !NativeDriver client. It implements a !WebDriver API which communicates with the server.</p>

==Import sample test case into Eclipse==

<ol>
<li>Start Eclipse</li>
<li>Click the _File -> Import..._ menu item.</li>
<li>Select _Existing Projects into Workspace_ in the _General_ category and click _Next_</li>
<li>Click _Select root directory_ and then click _Browse..._</li>
<li>Open the `nativedriver/iphone/Client/test` directory in the repository you downloaded</li>
<li>Click Finish.</li>
</ol>

<p>The `ios-test` project you imported contains sample tests written with iOS !NativeDriver.</p>

==Run the test==

<ol>
<li>Right-click `NativeDriverTest` class in the `ios-test` project</li>
<li>Select _Run As->JUnit Test_.</li>
<li>Specify the _Eclipse JUnit Launcher_ as the _Preferred Launcher_.</li>
<li>Watch the emulator to see the application automatically moving!</li>
</ol>